docs/index.rst, before:

.. BBC Microbit Micropython documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Oct 20 10:41:30 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

BBC micro:bit MicroPython documentation
=======================================

Welcome!

The BBC micro:bit is a small computing device for children. One of the
languages it understands is the popular Python programming langauge. The
version of Python that runs on the BBC micro:bit is called MicroPython.

This documentation includes lessons for teachers
and API documentation for developers (check out the index on the left). We hope
you enjoy developing for the BBC micro:bit using MicroPython.

.. image:: comic.png

To get involved with the community subscribe to the microbit@python.org
mailing list (https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/microbit).

.. note::

    This project is under active development. Please help other
    developers by adding tips, how-tos, and Q&A to this document.
    Thanks!

Projects related to MicroPython on the BBC micro:bit include:

* `Mu <https://github.com/ntoll/mu>`_ - a simple code editor for kids, teachers and beginner programmers. Probably the easiest way for people to program MicroPython on the BBC micro:bit.
* `uFlash <http://uflash.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_ - a command line tool for flashing raw Python scripts onto a BBC micro:bit.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Tutorials

    tutorials/introduction
    tutorials/hello
    tutorials/images
    tutorials/buttons
    tutorials/io
    tutorials/music
    tutorials/random
    tutorials/movement
    tutorials/gestures
    tutorials/direction
    tutorials/network
    tutorials/next

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: API Reference

   microbit_micropython_api.rst
   microbit.rst
   pin.rst
   music.rst
   image.rst
   compass.rst
   accelerometer.rst
   button.rst
   display.rst
   i2c.rst
   uart.rst
   spi.rst
   random.rst
   neopixel.rst
   ble.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Developer Guide

   devguide/installation
   devguide/flashfirmware
   devguide/repl
   devguide/devfaq
   devguide/contributing

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Indices and tables

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add microphone page to index and update for V2

docs/index.rst, after:

.. BBC Microbit Micropython documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Oct 20 10:41:30 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

BBC micro:bit MicroPython documentation
=======================================

Welcome!

The `BBC micro:bit<https://microbit.org>`_ is a small computing device for children. One of the
languages it understands is the popular Python programming langauge. The
version of Python that runs on the BBC micro:bit is called MicroPython.

This documentation includes lessons for teachers
and API documentation for developers (check out the index on the left). We hope
you enjoy developing for the BBC micro:bit using MicroPython.

.. note::

    The BBC micro:bit MicroPython documentation contains information for all 
    versions of the micro:bit board. Where functionality is applicable only
    to the latest device, you will see a note or comment marking this as 
    **V2**.

.. image:: comic.png

.. note::

    This project is under active development. Please help other
    developers by adding tips, how-tos, and Q&A to this document.
    Thanks!

Projects related to MicroPython on the BBC micro:bit include:

* `Mu <https://github.com/ntoll/mu>`_ - a simple code editor for kids, teachers and beginner programmers. Probably the easiest way for people to program MicroPython on the BBC micro:bit.
* `uFlash <http://uflash.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_ - a command line tool for flashing raw Python scripts onto a BBC micro:bit.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Tutorials

    tutorials/introduction
    tutorials/hello
    tutorials/images
    tutorials/buttons
    tutorials/io
    tutorials/music
    tutorials/random
    tutorials/movement
    tutorials/gestures
    tutorials/direction
    tutorials/network
    tutorials/next

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: API Reference

   microbit_micropython_api.rst
   microbit.rst
   pin.rst
   music.rst
   image.rst
   compass.rst
   accelerometer.rst
   button.rst
   display.rst
   microphone.rst
   i2c.rst
   uart.rst
   spi.rst
   random.rst
   neopixel.rst
   ble.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Developer Guide

   devguide/installation
   devguide/flashfirmware
   devguide/repl
   devguide/devfaq
   devguide/contributing

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Indices and tables

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
